`ValidPathInfo` JSON format should use `null` not omit field (#9995)
NixOS/nix: doc/manual/src/contributing/json-guideline.md

Reviewer: Thoughts: we should recommend that consumers ignore any fields they don't know.
I also like the GraphQL-like idea of specifying which attrs to expect, so that the consumer can safely use the whole value without anything unexpected occurring in it.
However, this seems less relevant (and unlikely to see much adoption) in the CLI; rather applies more to a `fetchTree` `meta` return attr (https://github.com/NixOS/nix/issues/8940#issuecomment-2142197917), where use of the whole object is actually relevant for reproducibility. Or as a solution for in-sandbox path info JSONs that isn't quite as capable as versioning, but does prevent over-fetching.

```json
{
  "storeTypes": { "local": { ... }, ... },
  "pluginSupport": true
}
```

While the dictionary of store types seems like a very complete response at first, a use case may arise that warrants returning additional information.
For example, the presence of plugin support may be crucial information for a client to proceed when their desired store type is missing.

The following representation is bad because it is not extensible:

```json
{ "outputs": [ "out" "bin" ] }
```

However, simply converting everything to records is not enough, because the order of outputs must be preserved:

```json
{ "outputs": { "bin": {}, "out": {} } }
```

The first item is the default output. Deriving this information from the outputs ordering is not great, but this is how Nix currently happens to work.
While it is possible for a JSON parser to preserve the order of fields, we can not rely on this capability to be present in all JSON libraries.

This representation is extensible and preserves the ordering:

```json
{ "outputs": [ { "outputName": "out" }, { "outputName": "bin" } ] }
```

## Self-describing values

> Per the above, its crucial we should be able to add fields to extend the format in a backwards-compatible way.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's crucial to allow for adding fields in order to extend the format in a backwards-compatible way.
```

Author: ```suggestion
As described in the previous section, it's crucial that schemas can be extended with with new fields without breaking compatibility.
```

> However, that should *not* mean we use the presence/absence of fields to indicate optional information *within* a version of the format.

Author: ```suggestion
However, that should *not* mean we use the presence/absence of fields to indicate optional information *within* a version of the schema.
```

> Instead, one should always include the field, and use `null` to indicate the "nothing" case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, always include the field, and use `null` to indicate the "nothing" case.
```

### Examples

Here are two JSON objects:

```json
{
  "foo": {}
}
```
```json
{
  "foo": {},
  "bar": {}
}
```

Since they differ in which fields they contain, they should *not* both be valid values of the same schema.
At most, they can match two different schemas where the second (with `foo` and `bar`) is considered a newer version of the first (with just `foo`).

> With in each version, all fields are mandatory (always `foo`, and always `foo` and `bar`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within each version, all fields are mandatory (always `foo`, and always `foo` and `bar`).
```

> # JSON guildeline

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# JSON guideline
```

Love the idea of a JSON guild tho. Would be helpful.

Nix consumes and produces JSON in a variety of contexts.

> These guidelines ensure consistent practices for all our JSON schema, so it is easy to communicate with Nix, and intuition gained from working with schemas transfer to working with another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These guidelines ensure consistent practices for all our JSON interfaces, for ease of use, and so that experience in one part carries over to another.
```

## Extensibility

The schema of JSON input and output should allow for backwards compatible extension.
This section explains how to achieve this.

Two definitions are helpful here, because while JSON only defines one "key-value" object type, we use it to cover two use cases:

 - **dictionary**: a map from names to value that all have the same type.
   In C++ this would be a `std::map` with string keys.

 - **record**: a fixed set of attributes each with their own type.
   In C++, this would be represented by a `struct`.

It is best not to mix these use cases, as that may lead to incompatibilities when the schema changes.

> For example, adding a record field to a dictionary breaks consumers that assume all JSON object fields to have the same meaning and type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, adding a record field to a dictionary breaks consumers that assume all JSON object fields to have the same meaning and type, and dictionary items with a colliding name can not be represented anymore.
```

Move docs, I know, but this seems like a good addition anyway.

}
```

This is good, because the it is extensible at the root, and is somewhat self-documenting:

```json
{
  "storeTypes": { "local": { ... }, ... },
  "pluginSupport": true
}
```

While the dictionary of store types seems like a very complete response at first, a use case may arise that warrants returning additional information.
For example, the presence of plugin support may be crucial information for a client to proceed when their desired store type is missing.

The following representation is bad because it is not extensible:

```json
{ "outputs": [ "out" "bin" ] }
```

However, simply converting everything to records is not enough, because the order of outputs must be preserved:

```json
{ "outputs": { "bin": {}, "out": {} } }
```

The first item is the default output. Deriving this information from the outputs ordering is not great, but this is how Nix currently happens to work.
While it is possible for a JSON parser to preserve the order of fields, we can not rely on this capability to be present in all JSON libraries.

This representation is extensible and preserves the ordering:

```json
{ "outputs": [ { "outputName": "out" }, { "outputName": "bin" } ] }
```

> ## Ease of consumption

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Self-describing values
```

This applies to `null` fields at least.

Per the above, its crucial we should be able to add fields to extend the format in a backwards-compatible way.
However, that should *not* mean we use the presence/absence of fields to indicate optional information *within* a version of the format.
Instead, one should always include the field, and use `null` to indicate the "nothing" case.

> 
> An exception to this is [tagged unions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tagged_union).
> In this case, we have one "tag" field which says what *variant* the record should be, and a bunch of other variant-specific fields.
> There is no expectation to include `null`-valued fields from other variants.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Fine with me

> There is no expectation to include `null`-valued fields from other variants.

Reviewer: This needs an example, but I don't think we've formalized how we represent tagged unions yet.
There's multiple ways; see e.g. [`attrTag`](https://nixos.org/manual/nixos/stable/#sec-option-types-sums) vs [`taggedSubmodule`](https://github.com/NixOS/nixpkgs/pull/254790). Another one is a two-field records where the value field's schema is dependent on the tag field's value.

Postpone to follow-up PR?
